# Project Management - Genetic Risk Assessment and Monitoring Application
### Northeastern University 

1. Led a project management initiative for the development of a mobile application focused on Genetic Risk Assessment and Monitoring, overseeing the project from inception to completion.
2. Defined the project objectives and scope, identifying the optimal technical approach for successful execution.
3. Developed and implemented essential project management tools, including the Work Breakdown Structure (WBS), RACI Matrix, Gantt Chart, and PERT Chart, ensuring efficient task allocation, accountability, and timeline adherence.
4. Conducted comprehensive research to perform a SWOT analysis, enabling the identification of project risks, success factors, and mitigation strategies.
5. Utilized various visualization techniques, such as Mind Maps and UML diagrams, to enhance project planning and communication, ensuring clear understanding and alignment among team members and stakeholders.

### Purpose
Genetics plays a crucial part in maintaining our health. In addition to lifestyle and environment, understanding our genetic risks helps monitor and prevent various diseases. Usually, getting genetic insights from our family history and medical records involve finding a genetic counselor in your area and booking an appointment, followed by further testing. This project aims to develop an application that will help patients and the medical community in collecting and maintaining family history, and medical records efficiently and securely, from the comfort of their homes at a reduced cost. It will also use medical guidelines, and data to assess and predict risks for genetic conditions as well as provide guidance and recommendations on genetic counselors, doctors, testing and preventative measures according to the risk assessment. In addition, it will help clinicians save time and money by gathering the data in a secure global cloud-based platform to be easily accessible.

### Objective
This project will develop an application which will have a platform for patients as well as healthcare providers/ clinicians. The app will be used by patients to store their family history and medical records which will be used to assess and predict genetic risks for patients by using the current guidelines and a predictive analytics machine learning model. The algorithm will provide analysis and insights across various inherited diseases from oncology to rare inherited diseases like Cardiomyopathy, Alzheimer’s, pediatric diseases, mental health, and more, and accordingly connect them with clinicians and testing facilities. The data will be stored on a cloud-based platform with a secure environment, following the data protection law and regulations including HIPAA and GDPR compliance, which will allow healthcare providers to access the data easily and safely.
